 
 
 
DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE 
Research and Education Program for Historically Black Colleges and Universities and 
Minority-Serving Institutions (HBCU/MI) 
 1 August 2024 – 31 July 2029 
 
Funding Opportunity Announcement 
W911NF24S0009 
 
 
 
Issued by 
U.S. Army Contracting Command-Aberdeen Proving Ground Research 
Triangle Park Division on behalf of the 
U.S. Army Combat Capabilities Command-Army Research Laboratory 
(DEVCOM-ARL) and 
The Office of the Under Secretary of Defense for Research and Engineering/ Assistant 
Secretary of Defense (Science and Technology) 
(OUSD(R&E)/ASD(S&T) 
 
 
 
 
Issued: August 2024 
Applications Due: Open Continuously until 31 July 2029
2 
 
TABLE OF CONTENTS 
I. PROGRAM DESCRIPTION ..................................................................................................................... 3 
A. Required Overview Content .................................................................................................................. 3 
B. Additional Overview Information ......................................................................................................... 3 
II. FEDERAL AWARD INFORMATION....................................................................................................... 5 
A. Program Overview ................................................................................................................................5 
B. Federal Award Information...................................................................................................................6 
C. Eligibility Information .......................................................................................................................... 7 
D. Application and Submission Information ............................................................................................. 8 
E. Application Review Information ......................................................................................................... 17 
F. Federal Award Administration Notice………………………………………………………………19 
G. Federal Awarding Agency Contact…………………………………………………………………24 
H. Other Information ................................................................................................................................ 25 
3 
 
I. PROGRAM DESCRIPTION 
A. Required Overview Content 
1. Federal Agency Name(s) 
The Research and Education Program for Historically Black Colleges and 
Universities/Minority-Serving Institutions (HBCU/MI), funded by the Office of the Under 
Secretary of Defense for Research and Engineering/ Assistant Secretary of Defense 
(Science and Technology), will be administered through DEVCOM ARL. 
2. Funding Opportunity Title 
Department of Defense Research and Education Program for Historically Black Colleges and 
Universities and Minority-Serving Institutions (HBCU/MI) 
 
3. Announcement Type 
This is a new announcement. 
 
4. Funding Opportunity Number 
W911NF24S0009 
 
5. Catalog of Federal Domestic Assistance (CFDA) Number 
12.630, Basic, Applied, and Advanced Research in Science and Engineering 
 
6. Key Dates 
This Funding Opportunity Announcement (FOA) is open from the date of issuance through 
31 July 2029, unless otherwise amended. 
 
B. Additional Overview Information 
 
1. Under the authority of 10 U.S.C. § 4144 the Department of Defense (DoD) announces 
this Research and Education Program for Historically Black Colleges and Universities 
and Minority-Serving Institutions. The program is executed under policy and guidance 
of the (OUSD(R&E)/ASD(S&T) and administered through the DEVCOM ARL. 
 
2. The Army has a long history of supporting research and education at Historically Black 
Colleges and Universities and Minority-Serving Institutions. The DoD, in cooperation 
with the DEVCOM ARL, is leading new initiatives based on 10 U.S.C. § 4144, which 
directs DoD to provide assistance to HBCUs and MIs (hereafter ‘covered educational 
institutions’) to enhance their defense-related research and education capabilities in 
areas of importance to national defense; increase the number of graduates in disciplines 
important to the national security functions of the Department; and encourage research 
and educational collaborations with other institutions of higher education. Also 
informing these initiatives are the DoD-wide Strategy for Engagement with 
HBCUs/MIs based on section 233 of the FY 2016 National Defense Authorization Act 
(NDAA), section 262 of the NDAA for FY 2020., section 220 of the NDAA for FY 
2022, and section 223 of the NDAA for FY 2022. 
 
3. The DoD and the Nation need the best scientists and engineers to sustain defense 
capabilities. This can be accomplished through partnerships with, and support of, 
Institutions of Higher Education (IHE). The DoD will address this need by supporting 
4 
 
innovative research and education programs that encourage students to pursue careers 
in science, technology, engineering and mathematics (STEM), particularly at covered 
educational institutions. 
 
4. The DEVCOM ARL invites applications from covered educational institutions that meet 
the 10 U.S.C. § 4144 objective to enhance defense-related research and education.  The 
statutory objective shall be accomplished through initiatives designed to: 
 
• enhance the research and educational capabilities in areas of importance to 
national defense; 
 
• increase the number of graduates STEM disciplines; and 
 
• encourage research and educational collaborations between such institutions and 
other institutions of higher education, Government defense organizations, and the 
defense industry. 
 
5. Support for research and research-related educational enhancements will be achieved 
through competitively awarded grants and cooperative agreements. Applications should 
reflect the unique needs and capabilities of the applicant institution and explain how the 
proposed project will support the above objective. 
 
6. Applications are requested in areas of scientific interest to the DoD. These areas of 
scientific interest are defined through Broad Agency Announcements (BAAs) and Funding 
Opportunity Announcements (FOAs) published by the DEVCOM ARL for the Army and 
in support of the OUSD(R&E). Detailed information about the Army’s respective areas of 
interest is available at the following website 
 
DEVCOM ARL: https://arl.devcom.army.mil/collaborate-with-
us/opportunity/arl-baa/. This BAA may also be found on Grants.gov 
(https://www.grants.gov) by entering the BAA number in the “Search Grants” 
keyword box. 
 
7. The scope of an application should align with (1) the DoD (OUSD(R&E)/ASD(S&T) 
critical technology priorities set forth in the February 1, 2022 guidance USD(R&E) 
Technology Vision for an Era of Competition. The (OUSD(R&E)/ASD(S&T) guidance 
memo is at:  https://www.cto.mil/wp-
content/uploads/2022/02/usdre_strategic_vision_critical_tech_areas.pdf.  The critical 
technology priorities rely on innovation and workforce talent. The critical technology 
areas are: 
 
a. Biotechnology 
b. Quantum Science 
c. Future Generation Wireless Technology (Future G) 
d. Advanced Materials 
e. Trusted Artificial Intelligence and Autonomy 
f. Integrated Network Systems-of-Systems 
g. Microelectronics 
h. Space Technology 
5 
 
i. Renewable Energy Generation and Storage 
j. Advanced Computing and Software 
k. Human-Machine Interfaces 
l. Directed Energy 
m. Hypersonics 
n. Integrated Sensing and Cyber 
o. Other Defense priorities as defined in the 2022 National Defense Strategy  
 
Additional information and questions about the critical technology areas should be 
directed to Agency Contacts identified in Section II.O. of this FOA.Other research 
areas that are not aligned with the (OUSD(R&E)/ASD(S&T) critical technology 
priorities listed in I.B.7 will be considered.  The DEVCOM ARL BAA listed above 
under I.B.6 provides other research areas of interest to the DoD.   
8. The DoD follows a risk-based security review process designed to help protect critical 
technology and performer intellectual property associated with Defense research projects 
by identifying possible vectors of undue foreign influence.  The DoD will create risk 
assessments of all proposed senior/key personnel selected for awards.  The risk 
assessment process will be conducted separately from the technical or scientific review 
process and adjudicated prior to final award.  
 
II. 
FEDERAL AWARD INFORMATION 
 
A. Program Overview 
 
1. Projects proposed for funding under this FOA must align with the research interests of 
the DoD and the Army. As defined by DoD, “basic research” is systematic study 
directed toward greater knowledge or understanding of the fundamental aspects of 
phenomena and of observable facts without specific applications towards processes or 
products in mind. It includes all scientific study and experimentation directed toward 
increasing fundamental knowledge and understanding in those fields of the physical, 
engineering, environmental, life sciences, and information sciences related to long- 
term national security needs. “Applied research” is systematic study to understand the 
means to meet a recognized and specific need. It is a systematic expansion and 
application of knowledge to develop useful materials, devices, and systems or 
methods. Expanded definitions are detailed in DoD 7000.14-R, Financial 
Management Regulation, Volume 2B, Chapter 5.  The regulation is available at: 
https://comptroller.defense.gov/Portals/45/documents/fmr/current/02b/02b_05.pdf. 
 
2. Applications should describe how the proposed project will enhance defense-related 
research and research-related education pursuant to the objective and initiatives 
defined by 10 U.S.C § 4144 and should demonstrate alignment with one or more of 
the DoD critical technology areas or ARL research areas. Applicants are encouraged 
to consider innovative approaches that will enhance their institution’s science and 
engineering programs, strengthen the institution’s competitiveness in defense 
research programs, attract students by exposing them to state-of-the-art research, and 
encourage careers in STEM disciplines. 
 
3. The DoD will not prescribe an approach for an application; instead, it expects 
applicants to reflect on the unique needs and capabilities of their respective 
6 
 
institution. Methods through which the statutory objective can be achieved are as 
varied as the institutions. Factors such as research capabilities and facilities are 
unique to each institution and should be considered when preparing an application. 
 
B. Federal Award Information 
 
1. The Government reserves the right to select for award all, some, or none of the 
applications submitted in response to this announcement. Due to Government 
budget uncertainties, no specific amounts have been reserved for awards under this 
FOA. If an Applicant is interested in submitting an application under this FOA and 
has not previously submitted a preliminary inquiry under Section D. below, it is 
highly recommended to contact Ms. Evelyn Kent before preparing a whitepaper or 
submitting a full application. 
 
2. Authority: The Army Contracting Command – Aberdeen Proving Ground – 
Research Triangle Park  Division (ACC-APG-RTP) has the authority to award a 
variety of instruments on behalf of DEVCOM ARL. Awards under this FOA 
may be a grant or a cooperative agreement. The type of award will depend on 
the scope of project. Applicants may propose scholarships or fellowships that 
will be issued through the authority of the grant or cooperative agreement. The 
ACC-APG RTP Division reserves the right to select the type of award most 
appropriate for the effort proposed. Applicants should become familiar with award 
types and applicable regulations, described below. 
 
3. Grant: A legal instrument that, consistent with 31 U.S.C. § 6304, is used to enter 
into a relationship: 
 
• The principal purpose of which is to transfer a thing of value to the recipient to 
carry out a public purpose of support or stimulation authorized by a law of the 
United States, rather than to acquire property or services for the Federal 
Government’s direct benefit or use. 
 
• In which substantial involvement is not expected between the Federal Government 
and the recipient when carrying out the activity contemplated by the grant. 
• No fee or profit is allowed. 
4. Cooperative Agreement: A legal instrument which, consistent with 31 U.S.C. 
§ 6305, is used to enter into the same kind of relationship as a grant except that 
substantial involvement is expected between the Federal Government and the 
recipient when carrying out the activity contemplated by the cooperative agreement. 
The term does not include "cooperative research and development agreements" as 
defined in 15 U.S.C. § 3710a. No fee or profit is allowed. 
 
Grants and cooperative agreements are governed by the following: 
• Federal statutes 
• Federal regulations 
• 2 CFR Part 200 
• 2 CFR Part 1104,  
7 
 
• 32 CFR Parts 21, 22, 26 and 28 
• DoD Research and Development General Terms and Conditions 
• Agency-specific Research Terms and Conditions 
 
5. The following websites may be accessed to obtain an electronic copy of the governing 
regulations and terms and conditions: 
a. Code of Federal Regulations (CFR): http://www.ecfr.gov 
b. DoD Research and Development General Terms and Conditions: 
 
https://www.nre.navy.mil/work-with-us/manage-your-award/manage-grant-award/grants-
terms-conditions 
c. Agency-specific Research Terms and Conditions: 
https://www.arl.army.mil/resources/baa-forms/#terms-and-conditions 
 
C. Eligibility Information 
 
1. Eligible Applicants 
 
As provided in 10 U.S.C. § 4144, eligibility for this competition is open only to “covered 
educational institutions,” which are defined as: 
 
a. institutions of higher education eligible for assistance under Title III or Title V of the 
Higher Education Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 1051 et seq.); or 
 
b. accredited post-secondary minority institutions. 
 
Eligible applicants include community colleges or other two-year degree granting institutions 
meeting the definition of a “covered educational institution.” 
Enrollments, accreditation, and other factors may affect an institution’s eligibility in any 
given year. With the exception of HBCUs and Tribal Colleges and Universities (TCUs), an 
institution must apply to the Department of Education (DoEd) each year for eligibility under 
Title III or Title V. A copy of the DoEd letter certifying eligibility for Title III or Title V 
assistance in the year of the application to this FOA must be included with each 
application. The eligibility letter will not be included in the page limit (see Section II.G.3. 
below). If the DoEd eligibility letter is not submitted with the application, the applicant will 
be deemed ineligible, and the application will not be considered by DoD. 
 
2. Cost Sharing or Matching - Cost sharing or matching is not required and is not an 
evaluation factor. 
 
3. Other - Faculty and/or post-doctoral associates at the applicant institution may participate 
in the project and assist the PI as co-PI or in another capacity. HBCUs/MIs applying under 
this FOA may propose collaborations with up to two degree-granting IHEs.  Collaborations 
with entities other than degree-granting IHEs such as United States defense organizations, 
Federally Funded Research and Development Centers, and the defense industry are 
permitted however the non-IHE entity cannot receive any direct or subaward funding from 
the grant or cooperative agreement award(s).  Collaborations with foreign entities are not 
allowed.  All proposed collaborations should be explained in the narrative and in the budget 
justification. 
 
8 
 
D. Application and Submission Information 
 
1. Preliminary Inquiries: Applicants are encouraged to make preliminary inquiries to 
the Technical Point of Contact (TPOC) for this FOA, Ms. Evelyn Kent, at 
Evelyn.W.Kent.civ@mail.mil to discuss the type of research effort being 
contemplated. A whitepaper may be requested; if so, please follow the instructions 
below. NOTE: the Government will not be obligated by discussions arising out of 
preliminary inquiries. 
 
2. Classified submissions will not be accepted under this FOA. 
 
3. Whitepaper Preparation 
 
(a) Whitepapers should outline the proposed research, including how it is 
innovative, how it is expected to increase state-of-the-art knowledge in the 
proposed research area, and how the project will impact STEM education at the 
applicant institution. If collaborator(s) are anticipated, describe their 
participation and the impact on their respective institution(s).  If the 
collaborator is an IHE, describe the impact on their research and education 
programs and their STEM students. Describe the project’s relevance to the DoD 
critical technology areas or ARL research areas and the potential impact on the 
defense mission, if known. 
 
(b) Whitepapers are limited to seven (7) pages including five (5) pages for technical 
content, a cover page and a one-page addendum as described below. Pages 
exceeding these limits will not be reviewed or considered. 
 
(c) Whitepapers must comply with the guidelines below. No forms are required for 
whitepaper submission. 
 
• 
Page Size: 8 ½ x 11 inches 
• 
Margins – 1 inch 
• 
Spacing – single 
• 
Font – Times New Roman, 12 point 
• 
PDF document as attachment to email directed to TPOC at above address. 
 
(d) Format and content of whitepapers: 
 
a. Cover Page (not to exceed one page): The whitepaper cover page must include: 
Title of the whitepaper; name of the Principal Investigator (PI) and the institution 
submitting the whitepaper; the research area from the DEVCOM ARL FOA 
against which the whitepaper is submitted (see page 4 of this FOA). 
 
b. Technical Content (not to exceed five pages): 
 
i. Provide a detailed discussion of the proposed effort including the research 
objective, approach, relationship to similar research, and student involvement. 
Include the nature and extent of the anticipated results and, if applicable, the 
manner in which the project will align with DoD priorities. 
9 
 
ii. The type of support, if any, the applicant requests of the Government, such as 
use of government facilities, demonstration sites, test ranges, software, 
personnel or materials, shall be identified as Government Furnished 
Equipment (GFE), Government Furnished Information (GFI), Government 
Furnished Property (GFP), or Government Furnished Data (GFD). Applicants 
shall indicate any Government coordination that may be required for obtaining 
usage of government equipment or facilities that may be necessary to perform 
simulations or exercises to demonstrate the proposed capability. As noted 
under Funding Restrictions, of this FOA, the acquisition of equipment or 
instrumentation will not be funded under this FOA. 
iii. The cost portion of the whitepaper shall contain a brief cost estimate 
including personnel hours, materials and supplies, travel, 
scholarships, stipends, and other anticipated expenses. 
 
c. Addendum (not to exceed one page): Provide biographical sketches of 
the PI and key personnel, highlighting qualifications and experience in the 
proposed research area. 
 
(e) Restrictive Markings on Whitepapers: Proprietary data that the 
applicant intends to be used only for evaluation purposes must be clearly 
marked. Also identify any components of the whitepaper that are to be 
treated by the Government as limited rights in technical data and/or 
restricted rights in computer software. In the absence of such markings, the 
Government will conclude that there are no restrictions. All whitepapers 
will be treated as procurement sensitive and contents will be disclosed only 
for evaluation purposes. Applicants and any collaborators are cautioned, 
however, that whitepapers may be subject to release under terms of the 
Freedom of Information Act, 5 U.S.C. 552, as amended. 
 
4. Full Application Preparation and Submission (Read the following instructions carefully): 
 
The DoD is participating in the Grants.gov initiative to provide a single site to find and 
apply for funding opportunities. Applications to this FOA must be submitted through 
Grants.gov. Registration at the web site is required, as described below. This funding 
opportunity may be found on Grants.gov by going to ‘Search Grants’ screen and entering 
the funding opportunity number for this FOA, W911NF24S0009, in the Funding 
Opportunity search box. 
 
1. How to Register in Grants.gov: 
 
Applicants should read the registration instructions carefully and assemble required 
information specific to the applicant institution before beginning the registration process. 
Organizations must have a Unique Entity Identifier (UEI), active registration in the System for 
Award Management (SAM), and a Grants.gov account. 
 
Creating a Grants.gov account can be completed online in minutes, but an UEI and 
SAM registrations may take several weeks. Complete instructions can be found here: 
https://www.grants.gov/web/grants/applicants/organization-registration.html 
10 
 
a. Obtain an UEI: All entities applying for funding must have an UEI. Applicants must enter the UEI 
in the data entry field labeled "Unique Entity Identifier" on the Standard Form (SF) 424 form. 
Instructions to obtain an UEI are available at: 
https://www.grants.gov/applicants/applicant-registration  
 
b. Register with SAM: Organizations applying through Grants.gov must register with the System for 
Award Management (SAM). SAM registration must be renewed annually. Instructions for registering 
with SAM are available at: https://www.grants.gov/applicants/applicant-registration 
 
c. Create a Grants.gov Account: The next step is to register an account with Grants.gov. Follow 
the on-screen instructions or refer to the instructions at: 
https://www.grants.gov/applicants/applicant-registration 
 
d. Add a Profile to a Grants.gov Account: A profile in Grants.gov corresponds to a single applicant 
organization the user represents (i.e., an applicant) or an individual applicant. If you work for or 
consult with multiple organizations and have a profile for each, you may log in to one Grants.gov 
account to access all of your grant applications. To add an organizational profile to your Grants.gov 
account, enter the UEI for the organization in the UEI field while adding a profile. Instructions are 
available at: https://www.grants.gov/applicants/applicant-registration 
 
e. EBiz POC Authorized Profile Roles: After registering with Grants.gov and creating an 
Organization Applicant Profile, the organization applicant's request for Grants.gov roles and access 
is sent to the EBiz POC. The EBiz POC will then log in to Grants.gov and authorize the appropriate 
roles, which may include the Authorized Organization Representative (AOR) role, thereby giving 
permission to complete and submit applications on behalf of the organization. Applications may be 
submitted online at any time after establishing an AOR at the applicant institution. Instructions for 
creating a profile on Grants.gov are available at: https://www.grants.gov/applicants/applicant-
registration 
 
f. Track Role Status: To track your role request, refer to: 
https://www.grants.gov/applicants/applicant-registration 
 
g. Electronic Signature: When applications are submitted through Grants.gov, the name of the 
organization applicant with the AOR role (Block #19 on the SF-424) is inserted into the signature 
line of the application; this is the electronic signature. The EBiz POC must authorize people who are 
able to make legally binding commitments on behalf of the organization as a user with the AOR role; 
this step is often missed, and it is crucial for valid and timely submissions. 
 
2. How to Submit an Application in Grants.gov 
 
Applicants can apply online using Workspace, which is a shared, online environment where 
members of an institution’s grant team may simultaneously access and edit different web 
forms within an application. For each funding opportunity announcement (FOA), individual 
instances of a workspace can be created. Below is an overview of applying on Grants.gov. 
Complete instructions are available at:  
https://www.grants.gov/applicants/workspace-overview.html 
 
a. Create a Workspace: Creating a workspace allows the user to complete the application 
online and route it through the organization for review before submitting. 
11 
 
 
b. Complete a Workspace: Add participants to the workspace to work on the application 
together, complete the required forms online or download PDF versions, and check for 
errors before submission. The Workspace progress bar will display the state of your 
application process as you apply. As you apply using Workspace, you may click the blue 
question mark icon near the upper-right corner of each page to access context-sensitive help. 
 
1) Adobe Reader: If you decide not to apply by filling out web forms you can download 
individual PDF forms in Workspace. The individual PDF forms can be downloaded and 
saved to your local device storage, network drive(s), or external drives, then accessed 
through Adobe Reader. NOTE: Visit the Adobe Software Compatibility page on 
Grants.gov to download the appropriate version of the software at: 
https://www.grants.gov/applicants/adobe-software-compatibility. 
 
2) Mandatory Fields in Forms: In the forms, you will note fields marked with an asterisk 
and a background color. These fields are mandatory and must be completed to submit 
your application. 
 
3) Complete SF-424 Fields First: The forms are designed to fill in other required fields in 
other forms, such as the applicant’s name, address, and UEI. Once completed, the 
information will transfer automatically to the other forms. 
 
c. Submit a Workspace: An application may be submitted through workspace by clicking the 
Sign and Submit button on the Manage Workspace page, under the Forms tab. 
 
d. Track a Workspace Submission: After successfully submitting a workspace application, a 
Grants.gov Tracking Number (GRANT XXXXXXXX) is assigned to the application. The 
number will be listed on the Confirmation page that is generated after submission. Using the 
tracking number, access the Track My Application page under the Applicants tab or the 
Details tab in the submitted workspace. For additional training resources, including video 
tutorials, refer to: https://www.grants.gov/applicants/applicant-training  
 
e. Applicant Support: Grants.gov provides applicants 24/7 support via the toll-free number 
1-800-518-4726 and email at support@grants.gov. If you are experiencing difficulties with 
your submission, it is best to call the Grants.gov Support Center and get a ticket number. 
The Support Center ticket number will assist the DoD with tracking your issue and 
understanding background information on the issue. 
 
3. Content of Application 
 
Applicants must complete all forms and attachments. Follow the instructions on the forms 
and additional instructions below. To activate the “pop up” instructions on the forms, turn 
on the “Help Mode” (icon with the pointer and question mark at the top of the form). All 
attachments to Grants.gov forms must be in PDF format. NOTE: Ensure that attachments 
are not password protected. The following formatting rules apply for attachments: 
 
Paper size when printed – 8.5 x 11-inch paper, one-sided 
Margins – 1 inch 
Spacing – single 
12 
 
Font – Times New Roman, 12-point (excluding mandatory forms) 
Number of pages – 25 
The 25-page limit applies to the technical portion of the application, which includes the 
following: Project Summary/Abstract; Project Narrative; and Facilities and Other 
Resources. Pages exceeding this limit will not be considered in the application evaluation. 
Letters of support, if any, should be addressed to the PI; these will not be included in the 
page count. 
 
The following SF 424 (R&R) forms and attachments, as applicable, are required: 
 
FORM: The SF 424 (R&R) Application for Federal Assistance - The SF 424 (R&R) form 
is the cover page for all applications. Complete this form first to populate data in other 
forms. By submitting an application through Grants.gov, the AOR (Block #19 on the form 
and identified by username and password) is providing an “electronic signature.” 
 
To be compliant with Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 (20 U.S.C. § 1681 (Et. 
Seq.), the Department of Defense is collecting certain demographic and career information 
to assess the success rates of women who are proposed for key roles in applications in 
STEM disciplines. To enable this assessment, each application must include the following 
two forms completed as indicated below. 
 
FORM: Research & Related Senior/Key Person Profile (Expanded) – The ‘Degree 
Type’ and ‘Degree Year’ fields on the Research and Related Senior/Key Person Profile 
form will be used by DoD as the source for career information. In addition to the required 
fields on the form, applicants must complete these fields for all individuals identified as 
having the project role of PI or Co-PI on the form. Additional senior/key persons can be 
added by selecting the “Next Person” button. 
 
Biographical sketches are required for the PI and key personnel (not to exceed three pages 
each). These will not be included in the page count. Please include education and the year in 
which each degree was completed. 
 
(2) 
The following information is also required as part of a biographical sketch: 
 
(a) 
Relevant experience and employment history including a description of any prior 
Federal employment within one year preceding the date of proposal submission. 
 
(b) 
List of up to five publications most closely related to the proposed project and up to 
five other significant publications, including those being printed. Patents, copyrights, or 
software systems developed may be substituted for publications. 
(c) 
List of persons, other than those cited in the publications list, who have collaborated on 
a project or a book, article, report or paper within the last four years. Include 
pending publications and submissions. Otherwise, state "None." 
 
(d) 
Names of each investigator's own graduate or post-graduate advisors and advisees. 
 
NOTE: The information provided in (c) and (d) is used to help identify potential conflicts or 
bias in the selection of reviewers. 
 
 FORM:  CURRENT AND PENDING SUPPORT: 
13 
 
 
Not later than October 1, 2024, all Notices of Funding Opportunity for assistance awards for 
the purpose of R&D must require the use of the common forms located here 
https://www.nsf.gov/bfa/dias/policy/nstc_disclosure.jsp for the collection of biosketch and 
current and pending support information associated with the SF-424 R&R family of forms. 
Specifically, these common forms are to be used with the Research and Related Senior/Key 
Person Profile (Expanded) form (OMB Control Number 4040-0001). This form has inputs for 
both “biosketch” and “current and pending support”. These common forms are to be used to 
supply the inputs to the Research and Related Senior/Key Person Profile (Expanded) form. 
 
FORM: Research & Related Personal Data - This form will be used by DoD as the source 
of demographic information, such as gender, race, ethnicity, and disability information for 
the PI and all other persons identified as Co-PI. Each application must include this form. 
Note, however, that provision of the demographic information is voluntary. If completing 
the form for multiple individuals, each one can be added by selecting the “Next Person” 
button. The demographic information will be used for statistical purposes only and will not 
be available to merit reviewers. Applicants who do not wish to provide some or all of the 
information should select the “Do not wish to provide” option. 
 
FORM: Research & Related Other Project Information – Complete questions 1 through 6 
and attach files for items 7 through 12. The files must comply with the following: 
 
Project Summary/Abstract (Field 7 on the form) – The Project Summary/Abstract must be 
no longer than a single page. It must be marked to indicate that it is publicly releasable, 
as abstracts for all awarded applications will be placed on a DoD website searchable by the 
public. The abstract should provide a concise description of the proposed project and 
associated research-related education, including a statement of objectives and methods to be 
employed. It should be informative to other persons working in the same or related research 
fields and insofar as possible understandable to a technically literate lay reader. The header 
of the abstract should identify the PI, the institution, and the application title. 
 
Project Narrative (Field 8 on the form) - At the beginning of the project narrative, indicate 
the research topic area(s) to which the proposed project is relevant and the technical 
program manager(s). Refer to BAA and FOA links on page 4 of this document. The 
project narrative must describe the following to enable technical evaluation of the 
proposed project: 
 
− 
The research to be undertaken in a level of detail that fully addresses the objectives of 
the research, approaches to be used, the relationship of the project to the state of 
knowledge in the field and to any related work at the institution or elsewhere. 
 
− 
The anticipated results and how the project relates to the DoD mission and priorities. 
 
− 
The facilities and equipment available at the university for performing the proposed 
research. 
 
− 
The involvement of undergraduate and/or graduate students in the research project and 
associated research-related education. Program funds may be requested for scholarships 
and fellowships pursuant to 10 U.S.C. 4144. The involvement of students in the 
research project is critical to achieving program objectives. 
 
14 
 
Bibliography & References Cited (Field 9 on the form) – Include a bibliography and list 
of literature citations, if applicable. 
 
Facilities and Other Resources (Field 10 on the form) – Include a list of existing facilities 
and available resources including equipment and instruments to be used in the project. 
 
Equipment (Field 11 on the form) – Not applicable. Equipment/instrumentation acquisition 
will not be supported under this FOA. 
 
Other Attachments (Field 12 on the form) – Provide other documents relevant to the 
proposed project. 
 
FORM: (R&R) Research & Related Budget: Complete Sections A through H and attach 
a budget justification in Section L. The budget justification should explain with clarity all 
entries in Sections A through H and enable meaningful evaluation. Note that Section J 
should not be completed, as no fee will be paid to a recipient.  Costs proposed must 
confirm to 2 CFR Part 200. 
The total project costs, i.e., the amount requested from DoD under this FOA, must be shown 
in total as well as broken down by cost element for each year of the performance period. 
Additional budget periods may be added to the Research & Related Budget form by clicking 
the “Add Period” button at the end of the first budget period. The cumulative Research & 
Related Budget is automatically calculated, and the last page of the budget form will reflect 
the total costs for all budget periods. NOTE: the total calculated amount on the last page of 
the budget form must agree with the amount entered in Block #15 of the Cover Page, SF424. 
 
The following additional guidance is provided: 
 
Direct Labor: Show the current and projected salary amounts in terms of man-hours, man- 
months, or annual salary to be charged by the PI(s), faculty, research associates, post- 
doctoral associates, graduate and undergraduate students, secretarial, clerical, and other 
technical personnel either by personnel or position. State the number of man-hours used to 
calculate a man-month or man-year. Research during the academic term is deemed part of 
regular academic duties, not an extra function for which additional compensation or 
compensation at a higher rate is warranted. Consequently, academic term salaries shall not 
be augmented either in rate or in total amount for research performed during the academic 
term. Rates of compensation for research conducted during non-academic (summer) terms 
shall not exceed the rate for the academic terms. When part or all of a person's services are 
to be charged as project costs, it is expected that the person will be relieved of an equal part 
or all of his or her regular teaching or other obligations. 
 
For each person or position, provide the following information: 
 
a. The basis for the direct labor hours or percentage of effort, e.g., historical hours or 
estimates; 
 
b. The basis for the direct labor rates or salaries. Labor costs should be predicated upon 
current labor rates or salaries. These rates may be adjusted upward for forecast 
salary or wage cost-of-living increases that will occur during the agreement period. 
The cost application should separately identify the rationale applied to base 
15 
 
salary/wage for cost-of-living adjustments and merit increases. Each must be fully 
explained; 
 
c. The portion of time to be devoted to the proposed research, divided 
between academic and non-academic (summer) terms, when applicable; 
d. The total annual salary charged to the research project; and 
 
e. Any details that may affect the salary during the project, such as plans for leave 
and/or remuneration while on leave. 
 
f. 
Fringe Benefits and Indirect Costs (Overhead, General and Administrative, and 
Other): The most recent rates, dates of negotiation, the base(s) and periods to which 
the rates apply must be disclosed and a statement included identifying whether the 
proposed rates are provisional or fixed. If the rates have been negotiated by a 
Government agency, state when and by which agency. A copy of the negotiation 
memorandum should be provided. If negotiated forecast rates do not exist, 
applicants must provide sufficient detail to enable a determination to be made that 
the costs included in the forecast rate are allocable according to applicable cost 
provisions. Applicants' disclosure should be sufficient to permit a full understanding 
of the content of the rate(s) and how it was established. As a minimum, the 
submission should identify: (g. thru l. below) 
g. All individual cost elements included in the forecast rate(s); 
 
h. Basis used to prorate indirect expenses to cost pools, if any; 
 
i. How the rate(s) was calculated; 
 
j. Distribution basis of the developed rate(s); 
 
k. Basis on which the overhead rate is calculated, such as "salaries and wages" or "total 
costs;" and 
 
l. The period of the applicant's Fiscal Year. 
 
Travel: Forecasts of travel expenditures (domestic and foreign) that identify the destination, 
duration, and purpose of trip are required, as well as itemized cost elements of airfare, 
mileage, per diem rates, and other associated costs. These should be in sufficient detail to 
determine the reasonableness of such costs. Allowance for air travel normally will not 
exceed the cost of round-trip, economy air accommodations. Costs for domestic travel must 
not exceed $3,000 per year per PI. Separate, prior approval is required for foreign travel (i.e., 
travel outside the continental U.S., its possessions and Canada). Foreign travel requests must 
not exceed $1,800 per year per PI. Special justification will be required for travel requests in 
excess of the amounts stated above and for travel by individuals other than the PI(s). 
Individuals other than the PI(s) may include post-doctoral associates, research associates, 
graduate and undergraduate students, secretarial, clerical, and other technical personnel. 
 
Materials and Supplies: Estimate costs of materials and supplies. Provide basis for 
16 
 
developing the cost estimate (e.g., vendor quotes or vendor websites). 
 
Publication: Estimate the costs of publishing and reporting research results. 
Consultants: Consultant costs are not allowed under this FOA. 
Computer Services: Funds under this FOA may be used for computer services (e.g., retrieval 
of scientific or technical information) ONLY if such services are provided by departments or 
components of the applicant institution. Funding for computer services is otherwise prohibited. 
Equipment or Facility Rental/User Fees: Funds under this FOA will not be used for the 
acquisition of equipment.  Rental/user fees for facilities owned and operated by the institution 
are allowable.  Rental/user fees for facilities not owned and operated by the institution are not 
allowable. 
 
Subawards: An application may propose research collaborations with no more than two IHEs. 
Students from all participating institution must be involved in the research. The budget for a 
research collaboration must show that at least 60 percent of the total direct costs will be 
attributable to activities performed by the applicant institution, both in the conduct of research 
and in the management responsibilities of such an arrangement. 
 
Student/Trainee Support Costs: Funds awarded under this FOA may be used for 
scholarships and fellowships (10 U.S.C. 4144). Provide details about the scholarships or 
fellowships including levels of effort and support, and correlation with objectives of this 
FOA. 
 
Other Direct Costs: Itemize and provide the basis for other direct costs. 
 
FORM: (R&R) Research & Related Subaward Budget Attachment(s) – If the applicant is 
proposing research collaborations with one or two other IHEs, use this form for the 
subaward budget(s). 
 
FORM: Disclosure of Lobbying Activities (SF-LLL) – If the applicant has lobbying to 
report per 31 U.S.C. 1352, complete this optional form in the application package and 
include it with the other forms being submitted. 
 
DATA MANAGEMENT PLAN:  A data management plan is a document that describes 
which data generated through the course of the proposed research will be shared and 
preserved, how it will be done, or explains why data sharing or preservation is not 
possible or scientifically appropriate, or why the costs of sharing or preservation are 
incommensurate with the value of doing so. See also: DoD Instruction 3200.12. In no 
more than 2 pages set forth as a separate PDF document, discuss the following: 
 
• 
The types of data, software, and other materials to be produced. 
• 
How the data will be acquired. 
• 
Time and location of data acquisition, if scientifically pertinent. 
• 
How the data will be processed. 
• 
The file formats and the naming conventions that will be used. 
• 
A description of the quality assurance and quality control measures during 
collection, analysis, and processing. 
17 
 
• 
A description of dataset origin when existing data resources are used. 
• 
A description of the standards to be used for data and metadata format and content. 
• 
Appropriate timeframe for preservation. 
• 
The plan may consider the balance between the relative value of data preservation 
and other factors such as the associated cost and administrative burden. The plan will 
provide a justification for such decisions. 
• 
A statement that the data cannot be made available to the public when there are 
national security or controlled unclassified information concerns (e.g., “This data cannot 
be cleared for public release in accordance with the requirements in DoD Directive 
5230.09.”) 
 
4. Other Information 
 
Whitepaper Submission: All whitepapers must be emailed directly to the TPOC, Ms. 
Evelyn Kent, Evelyn.W.Kent.civ@mail.mil. In the email subject line, include the phrase 
“Whitepaper Submission” and the FOA number W911NF24S0009. Whitepapers must 
be a single PDF file attached to the email. 
 
 
5. Submission Dates and Times 
 
Applications will be considered until 4:00 PM Eastern Time 31 July 2029. All 
applicants will receive an electronic acknowledgement of receipt via email to the individual 
who serves as the institution’s AOR (Block #19 of the SF 424). 
 
6. Funding Restrictions 
 
The following will not be funded under this FOA: 
 
Alteration or renovation of facilities 
 
Projects involving classified information 
 
Consultant Services 
 
Acquisition of equipment or instrumentation  
 
Payments to non-IHE collaborators 
 
E. Application Review Information 
 
 
1. Evaluation and Disposition of Whitepapers: 
 
a. Evaluation Process: The whitepaper will be evaluated for the concept's scientific 
merit, potential contributions to the DoD mission and priority areas, and how the 
proposed effort will facilitate increasing the number the graduates in STEM 
disciplines. Applicants whose whitepapers are evaluated as having significant 
scientific merit and strong student participation in STEM disciplines may be 
invited to submit a full application. Note, however, that an applicant may submit 
an application despite having not submitted a whitepaper or receiving an 
application invite. 
 
b. Disposition Process: The applicant will be notified in writing upon completion of 
18 
 
the whitepaper evaluation. Whitepapers will not be returned to applicants. 
Applicants may request a summary of their whitepaper evaluation from the Grants 
Officer. 
 
 
2. Application Evaluation Criteria 
 
 
Primary Evaluation Criteria (of equal importance to each other) are: 
 
a. Scientific and technical merit of the proposed research. 
b. Relevance of the proposed research to the DoD critical technology areas or ARL 
research areas and potential contributions of the proposed research to the DoD 
mission. 
c. Potential of the proposed project to develop new research capabilities or enhance 
existing research capabilities and to broaden the research base in support of national 
defense. 
d. Potential of the project to enhance research and research-related education 
capabilities in STEM disciplines and increase the number of students engaged in 
STEM disciplines. 
e. Qualifications of the PI to achieve the objectives of the project. 
 
 Secondary evaluation criteria, of less importance than primary criteria but of         
      equal importance to each other, are: 
 
a. Potential of the project to foster collaborations with other institutions of higher 
education. 
b. Budgetary realism and cost effectiveness of the proposed research project. 
 
Applications will be evaluated by DoD subject matter experts using the above criteria. The 
most meritorious applications will be recommended for award commensurate with available 
funding. Approval of an award recommendation is the authority of the Research Director of the 
OUSD(R&E)/ASD(S&T). Applications may be handled for administrative purposes by support 
contractors. These support contractors are prohibited from submitting or collaborating on 
applications submitted under this FOA and they are prohibited from collaborating with IHEs 
post-award.  Support contractors are bound by non-disclosure and/or conflict of interest 
requirements.   
 
3.Recipient Qualification 
 
The Grants Officer is responsible for determining a recipient’s qualification prior to 
award. In general, the Grants Officer will award grants or cooperative agreements only to 
qualified recipients that meet the standards at 32 CFR 22.415. To be qualified, a potential 
recipient must: 
 
a. Have the management capability and adequate financial and technical resources, 
including those that would be made available through the grant or cooperative 
agreement, to execute the program of activities envisioned under the grant or 
19 
 
cooperative agreement; 
 
b. Have a satisfactory record of executing such programs or activities (if applicant is a 
previous recipient of a DoD-funded award); 
 
c. Have a satisfactory record of integrity and business ethics; and 
 
d. Be otherwise qualified and eligible to receive a grant or cooperative agreement 
under applicable laws and regulations. 
 
1) Applicants are requested to provide information to assist the Army Grants Officer’s 
evaluation of recipient qualifications. In accordance with Office of Management and Budget 
(OMB) guidance in parts 180 and 200 of Title 2, CFR, it is DoD policy that DoD 
Components must report and use integrity and performance information in the Federal 
Awardee Performance and Integrity Information System (FAPIIS), or any successor system 
designated by OMB. 
 
2) If the total Federal share of a grant or cooperative agreement will be greater than the 
simplified acquisition threshold (currently $250,000), then: 
 
a. The Army Grants Officer, prior to making an award, will review and consider any 
information about the applicant that is in the designated integrity and performance 
system accessible through SAM (currently FAPIIS) (see 41 U.S.C. 2313); 
 
b. An applicant, at its option, may review information in the designated integrity and 
performance systems accessible through SAM and comment on any information about 
itself that a federal awarding agency previously entered and is currently in the 
designated integrity and performance system accessible through SAM. 
 
c. The Army Grants Officer will consider any comments by the applicant, in addition to 
the other information in the designated integrity and performance system, in making a 
judgment about the applicant's integrity, business ethics, and record of performance 
under Federal awards when completing the review of risk posed by applicants as 
described in 2 CFR 200.205, Federal awarding agency review of risk posed by 
applicants. 
 
 
 
F. FEDERAL AWARD ADMINISTRATION INFORMATION 
 
i. 
Award Notices 
 
a. Applicants, both successful and unsuccessful, will be notified via e-mail.  Feedback will be 
provided upon request. 
 
b. The notification e-mail to successful applicants must not be regarded as a formal 
authorization to commit or expend funds. The Government is not obligated to 
provide any funding until the award document is signed by the Grants Officer. 
 
20 
 
c. Successful applicants may be contacted by the Grants Officer if supplemental 
information is necessary to finalize an award. This may involve representations, 
certifications, revised budgets or budget explanations, or other information required 
for award execution. The award start date will be determined at that time. 
 
ii. 
Administrative and National Policy Requirements 
 
a. An award issued under this FOA will be governed by the general terms and conditions 
in effect at the time of the award that conform to DoD’s implementation of OMB 
guidance applicable to financial assistance in 2 CFR part 200, “Uniform 
Administrative Requirements, Cost Principles, and Audit Requirements for Federal 
Awards.” The DoD Research and Development General Terms and Conditions (latest 
version, September 2020) are available at https://www.nre.navy.mil/work-with-
us/manage-your-award/manage-grant-award/grants-terms-conditions 
  
b. A recipient must comply with all applicable national policy requirements. The key 
national policy requirements that may relate to an award under this FOA are included 
in the terms and conditions specified in paragraph 2.a. above. 
 
 
c. Grant awards greater than $100,000 require a certification of compliance with a 
national policy mandate concerning lobbying. Statutes and Government-wide 
regulations require the certification to be submitted prior to award. When submitting 
your grant through Grants.gov, by completing blocks 18 and 19 of the SF 424 ( 
R&R) Form, the grant applicant is providing the certification on lobbying required 
by 32 CFR Part 28; otherwise, a copy signed by the AOR must be provided. Below is 
the required certification:  
 
CERTIFICATION AT APPENDIX A TO 32 CFR PART 28 REGARDING LOBBYING: Certification 
for Grants and Cooperative Agreements the undersigned certifies, to the best of his or her knowledge and 
belief, that: 
 
(1) No Federal appropriated funds have been paid or will be paid, by or on behalf of the 
undersigned, to any person for influencing or attempting to influence an officer or employee 
of an agency, a Member of Congress, an officer or employee of Congress, or an employee of 
a Member of Congress in connection with the awarding of any Federal contract, the making 
of any Federal grant, the making of any Federal loan, the entering into of any cooperative 
agreement, and the extension, continuation, renewal, amendment, or modification of any 
Federal contract, grant, loan, or cooperative agreement 
 
(2) If any funds other than Federal appropriated funds have been paid or will be paid to any 
person for influencing or attempting to influence an officer or employee of any agency, a 
Member of Congress, an officer or employee of Congress, or an employee of a Member of 
Congress in connection with this Federal contract, grant, loan, or cooperative agreement, the 
undersigned shall complete and submit SF-LLL, "Disclosure Form to Report Lobbying," in 
accordance with its instructions.  
 
(3) The undersigned shall require that the language of this certification be included in the award 
documents for all subawards at all tiers (including subcontracts, subgrants, and contracts 
21 
 
under grants, loans, and cooperative agreements) and that all subrecipients shall certify and 
disclose accordingly.  
 
This certification is a material representation of fact upon which reliance was placed when this transaction 
was made or entered into. Submission of this certification is a prerequisite for making or entering into this 
transaction imposed by 31 U.S.C. 1352. Any person who fails to file the required certification shall be 
subject to a civil penalty of not less than $10,000 and not more than $100,000 for each such failure.  
In accordance with Section 743 of P.L. 113-235 , none of the funds appropriated or otherwise made 
available by that or any other Act may be made available for a grant or cooperative agreement with an 
entity that requires its employees or contractors seeking to report fraud, waste, or abuse to sign internal 
confidentiality agreements or statements prohibiting or otherwise restricting those employees or 
contractors from lawfully reporting that waste, fraud, or abuse to a designated investigative or law 
enforcement representative of a Federal department or agency authorized to receive the information. 
 
d. PROHIBITION ON CONTRACTING WITH ENTITIES THAT REQUIRED CERTAIN INTERNAL 
CONFIDENTIALITY AGREEMENTS – REPRESENTATION  
Agreement with the representation below will be affirmed by checking the “I agree” box in block 17 of 
the SF424 (R&R) as part of the electronic proposal submitted via Grants.gov. The representation reads as 
follows: By submission of its proposal or application, the applicant represents that it does not require any 
of its employees, contractors, or subrecipients seeking to report fraud, waste, or abuse to sign or comply 
with internal confidentiality agreements or statements prohibiting or otherwise restricting those 
employees, contractors, subrecipients from lawfully reporting that waste, fraud, or abuse to a designated 
investigative or law enforcement representative of a Federal department or agency authorized to receive 
such information. *Note that: Section 743 states that it does not contravene requirements applicable to SF 
312, Form 4414, or any other form issued by a Federal department or agency governing the nondisclosure 
of classified information.  
 
Recipients are required to submit the following representation with the application package IAW the 
instructions of this FOA. 
  
e. REPRESENTATIONS UNDER DOD ASSISTANCE AGREEMENTS: APPROPRIATIONS 
PROVISIONS ON TAX DELINQUENCY AND FELONY CONVICTIONS  
 
The applicant is [ ] is not [ ] a “Corporation” meaning any entity, including any institution of higher 
education, other nonprofit organization, or for-profit entity that has filed articles of incorporation.  
 
If the applicant is a “Corporation” please complete the following representations:  
 
(a) The applicant represents that it is [ ] is not [ ] a corporation that has any unpaid Federal tax liability 
that has been assessed, for which all judicial and administrative remedies have been exhausted or have 
lapsed, and that is not being paid in a timely manner pursuant to an agreement with the authority 
responsible for collecting the tax liability.  
 
(b) The applicant represents that it is [ ] is not [ ] a corporation that was convicted of a criminal violation 
under any Federal law within the preceding 24 months. 
 
NOTE: If an applicant responds in the affirmative to either of the above representations, the applicant is 
ineligible to receive an award unless the agency suspension and debarment official (SDO) has considered 
suspension or debarment and determined that further action is not required to protect the Government’s 
interests. The applicant therefore should provide information about its tax liability or conviction to the 
agency’s SDO as soon as it can do so, to facilitate completion of the required considerations before award 
22 
 
decisions are made 
 
f. PROHIBITION ON CONTRACTING WITH ENTITIES USING CERTAIN 
TELECOMMUNICATIONS AND VIDEO SURVEILLANCE SERVICES OR EQUIPMENT  
 
Section 889 of the National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) for Fiscal Year (FY) 2019 (Public Law 
115-232) prohibits the head of an executive agency from obligating or expending loan or grant funds to 
procure or obtain, extend, or renew a contract to procure or obtain, or enter into a contract (or extend or 
105 renew a contract) to procure or obtain the equipment, services, or systems prohibited systems as 
identified in section 889 of the NDAA for FY 2019. For more information on how this applies to all grant 
recipients and sub-recipients after August 13, 2020, please see DoD Research General Terms and 
Conditions (SEP 2021) NP Article IV. Other national policy requirements, paragraph 18. 
b. Policy Requirements: The following list provides notable national policy requirements that may be 
applicable to an award. NOTE: The following is not an all-inclusive list of policy requirements. For 
assistance awards, refer to the DoD Research and Development General Terms and Conditions at 
https://www.nre.navy.mil/work-with-us/manage-your-award/manage-grant-award/grantsterms-conditions 
for additional national policy requirements that may apply.  
 
g. PROTECTION OF HUMAN SUBJECTS: 
The recipient must protect the rights and welfare of individuals who participate as human subjects in 
research under this award and comply fully with the requirements at 32 CFR part 219, Department of 
Defense Instruction (DoDI) 3216.02, 10 U.S.C. 980, the National Policy Requirements Concerning Live 
Organisms Terms and Conditions (Section A.1., Human Subjects, at 81 Federal Register 78380, 
Appendix C to Part 1122), and when applicable, Food and Drug Administration (FDA) policies and 
regulations. 
 
The recipient must not begin performance of research involving human subjects, also known as human 
subjects research (HSR), that is covered under 32 CFR part 219, or that meets exemption criteria under 32 
CFR 219.101(b), or expends funding on such effort, until you receive a formal notification of approval 
from the cognizant DoD Human Research Protection Official (HRPO). Approval to perform HSR under 
this award is received after the HRPO has performed a review of the recipient’s documentation of planned 
HSR activities and has officially furnished a concurrence with the recipient’s determination as presented 
in the documentation. 
 
In order for the HRPO to accomplish this concurrence review, the recipient must provide sufficient 
documentation to enable his or her assessment as follows:  
(i) If the HSR meets an exemption criterion under 32 CFR 219.101(b), the documentation must include a 
citation of the exemption category under 32 CFR 219.101(b) and a rationale statement.  
(ii) If the recipient’s activity is determined as “non-exempt research involving human subjects”, the 
documentation must include: Assurance of Compliance (a written assurance that an institution will 
comply with requirements of 32 CFR Part 219, as well as the terms of the assurance) appropriate for the 
scope of work or program plan; and − Institutional Review Board (IRB) approval, as well as all 
documentation reviewed by the IRB to make their determination.  
 
The HRPO retains final judgment on what activities constitute HSR, whether an exempt category applies, 
whether the risk determination is appropriate, and whether the planned HSR activities comply with the 
requirements in paragraph (a) of this section. The recipient must notify the Grants Officer/ immediately of 
any suspensions or terminations of the Assurance of Compliance. DoD staff, consultants, and advisory 
groups may independently review and inspect the recipient’s research and research procedures involving 
human subjects and, based on such findings, DoD may prohibit research that presents unacceptable 
hazards or otherwise fails to comply with DoD requirements.  
23 
 
Definitions for terms used in this section are found in DoDI 3216.02.  
 
h. ANIMAL USE:  Prior to initiating any animal work under the award, the recipient must:  
(i) Register the recipient’s research, development, test, and evaluation or training facility with the 
Secretary of Agriculture in accordance with 7 U.S.C. 2136 and 9 CFR section 2.30, unless otherwise 
exempt from this requirement by meeting the conditions in 7 U.S.C. 2136 and 9 CFR parts 1-4 for the 
duration of the activity.  
 
(ii) Have the recipient’s proposed animal use approved in accordance with DoDI 3216.01, Use of 
Animals in DoD Programs by a DoD Component Headquarters Oversight Office.  
(iii) Furnish evidence of such registration and approval to the grants officer.  
The recipient must make the animals on which the research is being conducted, and all premises, 
facilities, vehicles, equipment, and records that support animal care and use available during business 
hours and at other times mutually agreeable to the recipient, the United States Department of Agriculture 
Office of Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service (USDA/APHIS) representative, personnel 
representing the DoD component oversight offices, as well as the grants officer, to ascertain that the 
recipient is compliant with 7 U.S.C. 2131 et seq., 9 CFR parts 1-4, and DoDI 3216.01.  
The recipient’s care and use of animals must conform with the pertinent laws of the United States, 
regulations of the Department of Agriculture, and regulations, policies, and procedures of the DoD (see 7 
U.S.C. 2131 et seq., 9 CFR parts 1-4, and DoDI 3216.01). (d) The recipient must acquire animals in 
accordance with DoDI 3216.01. 
 
i. BIOLOGICAL SAFETY PROGRAM REQUIREMENTS: Awards may be subject to biological safety 
program requirements IAW:  
(a) Army Regulation (AR) 385-10, Chapter 20 
https://armypubs.army.mil/epubs/DR_pubs/DR_a/pdf/web/p385_10.pdf 
 
(b) Department of Army (DA) Pamphlet (PAM) 385-69 on safety standards for microbiological and 
biomedical laboratories. This pamphlet requires the mandatory use of the latest edition of the U.S. 
Department of Health and Human Services, Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) and 
National Institutes of Health’s (NIH) Biosafety in Microbiological and Biomedical Laboratories (BMBL) 
https://armypubs.army.mil/epubs/DR_pubs/DR_a/pdf/web/p385_69.pdf  
 
(c) DoD Manual 6055.18-M, Enclosure 4, Section 13 https://www.hsdl.org/?view&did=24365  
 
j. MILITARY RECRUITING: This is to notify potential applicants that each grant or cooperative 
agreement awarded under this announcement to an institution of higher education must include the 
following term and condition:  
(a) As a condition for receiving funds available to the DoD under this award, you agree that you are not 
an institution of higher education (as defined in 32 CFR part 216) that has a policy or practice that either 
prohibits, or in effect prevents:  
(i) The Secretary of a Military Department from maintaining, establishing, or operating a unit of the 
Senior Reserve Officers Training Corps (ROTC)—-in accordance with 10 U.S.C. 654 and other 
applicable Federal laws—-at that institution (or any sub-element of that institution);  
(ii) Any student at that institution (or any sub-element of that institution) from enrolling in a unit of the 
Senior ROTC at another institution of higher education.  
(iii) The Secretary of a Military Department or Secretary of Homeland Security from gaining access to 
campuses, or access to students (who are 17 years of age or older) on campuses, for purposes of military 
recruiting in a manner that is at least equal in quality and scope to the access to campuses and to students 
that is provided to any other employer; or  
(iv) Access by military recruiters for purposes of military recruiting to the names of students (who are 17 
24 
 
years of age or older and enrolled at that institution or any subelement of that institution); their addresses, 
telephone listings, dates and places of birth, levels of education, academic majors, and degrees received; 
and the most recent educational institutions in which they were enrolled.  
(b) If you are determined, using the procedures in 32 CFR part 216, to be such an institution of higher 
education during the period of performance of this award, we:  
(i) Will cease all payments to you of DoD funds under this award and all other DoD grants and 
cooperative agreements; and  
(ii) May suspend or terminate those awards unilaterally for material failure to comply with the award 
terms and conditions. 
 
k. DRUG-FREE WORKPLACE: The recipient must comply with drug-free workplace requirements in 
Subpart B of 2 CFR Part 26, which is the DoD implementation of 41 U.S.C. Chapter 81, “Drug-Free 
Workplace” 
 
l. DEBARMENT AND SUSPENSION: The recipient must comply with requirements regarding 
debarment and suspension in 2 CFR Part 1125. This includes requirements concerning the recipient’s 
principals under an award, as well as requirements concerning the recipient’s procurement transactions 
and subawards that are implemented in DoD Research and Development General Terms and Conditions 
PROC Articles I through III and Sub Article II. 
 
m.  REPORTING SUBAWARDS AND EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION: The recipient must report 
information about subawards and executive compensation as specified in the award term in Appendix A 
to 2 CFR Part 170, “Reporting subaward and executive compensation information,” modified as follows:  
 
(a) To accommodate any future designation of a different Government wide Web site for reporting 
subaward information, the Web site “http://www.fsrs.gov” cited in paragraphs a.2.i. and a.3 of the award 
provision is replaced by the phrase “http://www.fsrs.gov or successor OMB designated Web site for 
reporting subaward information”;  
(b) To accommodate any future designation of a different Government wide Web site for reporting 
executive compensation information, the Web site “http://www.sam.gov” cited in paragraph b.2.i. of the 
award provision is replaced by the phrase “https://www.sam.gov or successor OMB-designated Web site 
for reporting information on total compensation” 
 
n. Reporting  
 
Additional reports including number and types will be specified in the award document but will include as 
a minimum monthly financial status reports. The reports shall be prepared and submitted in accordance 
with the procedures contained in the award document and mutually agreed upon before award. Reports 
and briefing material will also be required as appropriate to document progress in accomplishing program 
metrics. A final report that summarizes the project and tasks will be required at the conclusion of the 
performance period for the award. 
 
If the total Federal share exceeds $500,000 on any Federal award under a notice of funding opportunity, 
the post-award reporting requirements reflected in Appendix XII to 2 CFR 200 will be included in the 
award document. This requirement also applies to modifications of awards that: 1) increase the scope of 
the award, 2) are issued on or after January 1, 2016, and 3) increase the federal share of the award’s total 
value to an amount that exceeds $500,000. 
 
 
G. Federal Awarding Agency Contact 
25 
 
For questions of a technical or programmatic nature, contact: 
Evelyn Kent 
Office of the Under Secretary of Defense for Research and Engineering (OUSD(R&E)) 
Evelyn.W.Kent.civ@mail.mil 
 
Tamika Carey 
OUSD(R&E) HBCU/MI Program Analyst 
Tamika.A.Carey.ctr@mail.mil 
 
Tara Smith 
OUSD(R&E) HBCU/MI Program Analyst 
Tara.L.Smith38.ctr@mail.mil 
 
Questions regarding program execution and administration should be directed to: 
 
Patrice D. Collins 
US Army Combat Capabilities Development Command (CCDC) - Army Research Laboratory 
(ARL) 
Patrice.D.Collins.civ@army.mil 
 
Monique Wright 
US Army Combat Capabilities Development Command (CCDC) - Army Research Laboratory 
(ARL) 
Monique.n.wright3.civ@army.mil 
 
Glenn Hames 
Fibertek 
ARL HBCU/MI Program Specialist Glenn.e.hames.ctr@army.mil 
 
The Grants Officer for this FOA:  
 
William A. Creech 
US Army Contracting Command, Aberdeen Proving Ground RTP Division 
William.A.Creech3.civ@army.mil 
 
 
 
H. Other Submission Information 
 
An applicant may withdraw an application at any time before award by written notice or by e-mail. The 
AOR must send the notice of withdrawal to the Grants Officer of this FOA. Withdrawals are effective 
upon receipt by the Grants Officer. 
 
Applications must not include any information that has been identified as classified national security 
information under authorities established in Executive Order 12958, Classified National Security 
Information. 
 
Applicants are advised that employees of commercial firms under contract to the government may be 
26 
 
involved in administrative processing of applications. By submitting an application, an applicant 
consents to allowing access to its application(s) by these support contractors. All support contracts 
include nondisclosure agreements prohibiting their contractor employees from disclosing any 
information submitted by applicants. 
 
Risk-Based Security Review Process 
Senior/Key Personnel proposed under all grants and cooperative agreements are subject to 
the DoD Fundamental Research Risk-Based Security Review Process. This risk-based security 
review process provides consistency in policy and procedures across all DoD Components. Risk-
based security reviews will be conducted of all covered individuals (i.e., Senior/Key Personnel) 
submitted with fundamental research proposals that are identified as “selectable and 
recommended for funding.” The risk-based security reviews will be conducted by reviewing the 
Standard Form (SF) 424, “Senior/Key Person Profile (Expanded),” its accompanying or 
referenced documents, and the Research Performance Progress Reports (when applicable), in 
concert with the OUSD(R&E)’s Decision Matrix to Inform Fundamental Research Proposal 
Mitigation Decisions. 
 
It is DoD policy that the publication of products of fundamental research will remain unrestricted 
to the maximum extent possible. National Security Decision Directive (NSDD) 189 defines 
fundamental research as follows: 
 
Basic and applied research in science and engineering, the results of which ordinarily 
are published and shared broadly within the scientific community, as distinguished 
from proprietary research and from industrial development, design, production, and 
product utilization, the results of which ordinarily are restricted for proprietary or 
national security reasons. 
As of the date of publication of this solicitation, the Government expects that program goals as 
described herein may be met by proposers intending to perform fundamental research and does 
not anticipate applying publication restrictions of any kind to individual awards for fundamental 
research that may result from this solicitation. Notwithstanding this statement of expectation, the 
Government is not prohibited from considering and selecting research proposals that, while 
perhaps not qualifying as fundamental research under the foregoing definition, still meet the 
solicitation criteria for submissions. If proposals are selected for award that offer other than a 
fundamental research solution, the Government will either work with the proposer to modify the 
proposed statement of work to bring the research back into line with fundamental research or else 
the proposer will agree to restrictions to receive an award. 
 
University or non-profit research institution performance under this solicitation will include 
efforts categorized as fundamental research. In addition to Government support for free and open 
scientific exchanges and dissemination of research results in a broad and unrestricted manner, the 
academic or non-profit research performer or recipient, regardless of tier, acknowledges that such 
research may have implications that are important to U.S. national interests and must be protected 
against foreign influence and exploitation. As such, the academic or non-profit research 
performer or recipient agrees to comply with the following requirements: 
a. On June 8, 2023, the Undersecretary of Defense for Research and Engineering (OUSD 
(R&E)) released a memorandum, “Policy on Risk-Based Security Reviews on 
Fundamental Research,” directing Components to establish a risk-based security review 
27 
 
program to identify and mitigate undue foreign influence in fundamental research 
consistent with the requirements mandated by NSPM-33. In accordance with these 
requirements, all Covered Individuals proposed under all fundamental research proposals 
that are selected for award will be assessed for potential undue foreign influence risk 
factors relating to professional and financial activities. This will be done by evaluating 
information provided via the SF-424 and any accompanying or referenced documents to 
identify and assess any associations or affiliations the Covered Individuals may have with 
foreign countries of concern (FCOC) (i.e., The Peoples Republic of China, the Russian 
Federation, the Islamic Republic of Iran, and the Democratic People’s Republic of North 
Korea) or FCOC connected entities. 
b. The University or non-profit research institution, performer, or recipient must establish 
and maintain an internal process or procedure to address malign foreign talent programs, 
conflicts of commitment, conflicts of interest, and research integrity consistent with 
USD(R&E) direction. The academic or non-profit research performer or recipient must 
also utilize due diligence to identify Foreign Components or participation by Covered 
Individuals in Foreign Government Talent Recruitment Programs and agree to share such 
information with the Government upon request. 
i. 
The above-described information will be provided to the Government as part of 
the proposal response to the solicitation and will be reviewed and assessed 
utilizing a risk-based security review process prior to award. Generally, this 
information will be included in the Research and Related Senior/Key Personnel 
Profile (Expanded) form (SF-424) required as part of the proposer’s submission 
through Grants.gov. 
1. Instructions regarding how to fill out the SF-424 and its biographical 
sketch can be found through Grants.gov. 
ii. 
The risk-based security review process takes into consideration the entirety of the 
Covered Individual’s SF-424, current and pending support, and biographical 
sketch. Any identified potential risk factors, along with publicly or commercially 
available validation information, are then compared to the “DoD Risk Decision 
Matrix” to determine the level of mitigation that may be required to proceed, if 
possible. 
iii. 
The risk-based security review process will leverage publicly available lists or 
reports published by the U.S. federal government. Those lists and reports include, 
but are not limited to: 
1. FY22 Lists Published in Response to Section 1286 of the John S. 
McCain National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2019 
(Public Law 115-232), as amended. 
2. Executive Order 13959 “Addressing the Threat From Securities 
Investments That Finance Communist Chinese Military 
Companies”: www.govinfo.gov/content/pkg/FR-2020-11-17/pdf/2020-
25459.pdf 
3. The U.S. Department of Commerce, Bureau of Industry and Security, 
List of Parties of Concern: www.bis.doc.gov/index.php/policy-
guidance/lists-of-parties-of-concern 
4. Director of National Intelligence (DNI) “World Wide Threat Assessment 
of the US Intelligence 
28 
 
Community”: www.dni.gov/files/ODNI/documents/assessments/ATA-
2023-Unclassified-Report.pdf 
5. Various Defense Counterintelligence and Security Agency (DCSA) 
products regarding targeting of US technologies, adversary targeting of 
academia, and the exploitation of academic experts: www.dcsa.mil 
iv. 
The DoD has explicitly stated in policy that there are foreign influence risks that 
are not able to be mitigated and thus would require denial of award. They are: 
1. BEGINNING IN FISCAL YEAR (FY) 2024 (1 OCTOBER 2023) 
PROSPECTIVE, NO U.S. INSTITUTION OF HIGHER 
LEARNING THAT HOSTS A CONFUCIUS INSTITUTE* MAY 
RECEIVE DOD FUNDING UNLESS THE INSTITUTION OF 
HIGHER EDUCATION HAS BEEN ISSUED A WAIVER BY THE 
SECRETARY OF DEFENSE PURSUANT TO SECTION 1062 OF 
THE WILLIAM M. (MAC) THORNBERRY NATIONAL 
DEFENSE AUTHORIZATION ACT FOR FY 
2021. INSTITUTIONS HOSTING A CONFUCIUS INSTITUTE 
ARE AUTOMATICALLY CLASSIFIED AS “PROHIBITED” 
UNDER OUSD(R&E) “POLICY ON RISK-BASED SECURITY 
REVIEWS ON FUNDAMENTAL RESEARCH” 
2. AS OF 9 AUGUST 2024, THE DOD IS PROHIBITED FROM 
FUNDING OR MAKING AN AWARD OF A FUNDAMENTAL 
RESEARCH PROJECT PROPOSAL IN WHICH A COVERED 
INDIVIDUAL IS ACTIVELY PARTICIPATING IN A MALIGN 
FOREIGN TALENT RECRUITMENT PROGRAM (MFTRP), 
PURSUANT TO SECTION 10632 OF THE CHIPS AND SCIENCE 
ACT OF 2022. INDIVIDUALS PARTICIPATING IN A MFTRP 
ARE AUTOMATICALLY CLASSIFIED AS “PROHIBITED” 
UNDER OUSD(R&E) “POLICY ON RISK-BASED SECURITY 
REVIEWS ON FUNDAMENTAL RESEARCH” 
* The term “Confucius Institute” means a cultural institute directly or indirectly 
funded by the Government of the People's Republic of China. 
v. 
Any changes to covered individuals will require submission of an SF 424 and its 
attachments, a security-based risk assessment, and approval by the contracting 
officer and program manager. 
vi. 
Security-based risk assessments will also be conducted if changes to covered 
individuals reporting criteria are reflected in the Research Performance Progress 
Reports. 
vii. 
To the greatest extent practicable, the DoD will work with the proposing 
institution to ensure that if the risk is able to be mitigated, it will make every 
effort to do so. If the proposing institution refuses to, or is unable to mitigate the 
identified risks, it may result in a denial of award. 
viii. 
Proposing institutions who have their fundamental research proposal rejected due 
to the risk-based security review process or the inability to come to agreement 
concerning proposed mitigation strategies may challenge the risk-based security 
review decision. In that instance, the OUSD(R&E) will reconsider the project 
proposal as well as any additional documentation provided by the proposing 
29 
 
institution to ensure that there was no erroneous interpretation of the material 
facts or law.  
ix. 
This process, to include negotiation of risk mitigation measures, is not to be 
considered as part of the time-to-award. 
c. Failure of the academic or non-profit research performer or recipient to reasonably 
exercise due diligence to discover or ensure that neither it nor any of its Covered 
Individuals involved in the subject award are participating in a Malign Foreign 
Government Talent Program or have a Foreign Component with FCOC or FCOC-
connected entity may result in the Government exercising remedies in accordance with 
Federal law and regulation. 
i. 
If, at any time during performance of this research award, the academic or non-
profit research performer or recipient should learn that it, its Covered Individuals, 
or applicable team members or subtier performers on this award are, or are 
believed to be, participants in a malign foreign government talent program or 
exhibiting behaviors/actions identified in the DoD Component Decision Matrix 
(i.e., funding from a FCOC or FCOC-connected entity, patents resulting from 
U.S. government funded research that were filed with a FCOC or on behalf of a 
FCOC-connected entity, and associations or affiliations with foreign government 
connected entities), the performer or recipient will notify the Government 
Contracting Officer or Agreements Officer within 5 business days. 
1. This disclosure must include specific information as to the personnel 
involved and the nature of the situation and relationship. The 
Government will have 30 business days to review this information and 
conduct any necessary fact-finding or discussion with the performer or 
recipient. 
2. Such disclosure could result in a termination of award at the 
government’s discretion. 
3. If the University receives no response from the Government to its 
disclosure within 30 business days, it may presume that the Government 
has determined the disclosure does not represent a threat. 
ii. 
The performer or recipient must flow down this provision to any subtier contracts 
or agreements involving direct participation in the performance of the research. 
All analysis and assessment of affiliations and associations of Covered Individuals are 
compliant with Title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964. Information regarding race, 
color, or national origin is not collected and does not have bearing in the risk assessment. 
University or non-profit research institutions with proposals selected for negotiation that 
have been assessed as having potential undue foreign influence risk factors, as defined by 
the DoD Decision Matrix, will be given an opportunity during the negotiation process to 
mitigate the risk. The DoD reserves the right to request any follow-up information needed 
to assess potential risk factors or proposed risk mitigation strategies. 
d. Definitions: Definitions can be found in the June 08, 2023 USD(R&E) memorandum, 
“Policy for Risk Based Security Reviews of Fundamental Research,” or as it is amended. 
 
